Title: Bazaar, A Recollection of Home

----

Color: #D94A4A

----

Description:

Bazaar, A Recollection of Home, is a textile project reminiscing on the bazaar environment in fabric.

My interest in bazaars as sites of social and economic exchange comes from my childhood experiences in my birthplace Kabul, Afghanistan from 1994-1996, just before the Taliban regime came to

power. As a young girl growing up in an Afghan family, my mother would often take me along
shopping with my four aunts and cousins. I loved wandering freely within the open-air bazaars
and watching a variety of jewelry stores and tailor shops with colorful central-Asian and
south-Asian fabrics. Women not only shopped within these clothing stores but also got their hair
and nails done at beauty parlors and adorned themselves for weddings, Nawruz, Afghan New
Year’s, or the Islamic celebrations such as Eid days. Afghan women were most drawn to custom
made dresses by male tailors whose influences came from magazines and Bollywood movies.
However, I noticed the absence of businesswomen in Bazaar spaces even in pre-Taliban Afghan
society. Women were the consumers in male-dominated bazaars due to traditions and a lack of
women’s rights and presence in the workplaces.
After the Taliban regime fell in 2001, beauty parlors once again began to flourish in the Afghan
capital – colorful feminine spaces in stark contrast to the dusty, dangerous, male-dominated
streets outside. Not only have beauty parlors increased in the city, but women also began to own
small businesses such as fashion boutiques, restaurants, and sales associates inside the city
center within a modern shopping mall located in downtown Kabul. It was wonderful to see the
shift being driven by Afghan women in a post-Taliban society. Once again, exploring the bazaar as
a consumerist space for families, I became interested in a growing Afghan hybrid visual culture in
relation to gender norms in these public spaces. My textile project Bazaar, A Recollection of Home
builds o of a cultural location that celebrates women’s representation and their presence in the
workplace within an urban society.
In Bazaar, A Recollection of Home I use fabric that is draped, folded, hung, stretched, sewn, and
wrapped around the space to pose questions about the interplay between economic exchanges,
subjectivity, representation, and othering. The exhibition explores the politics of globalization,
consumer exchanges between the east and west, and the social and gender norms within the

Afghan bazaars. In this project, I am re-weaving my childhood memories of the bazaar, transforming, and deforming it to my viewers a sense of place and time alongside an awareness of the politicized present.

----

Year: 2020